avatar
======

A Hurried View of the Universe

This research is to get the most for the whole of the Woods Clan. The key person pushing this approach is Jay Woods. The current head of the clan is Jay Woods. Those actively working on the project in addition are Dale Woods, Juel McDonald, Jonathan Woods, and Jason Woods. Cathy Simon has made important contributions from time to time. Nicole Helling, Angela Fisher, and Myriah Yzguirre have started to get interested. 

At this level the project is being stated in terms of capabilities and grown as an interest. Each interest is realized as a series of projects. As each project (which leaves a notebook or book) is worked out a series of capabilities is improved and leaves each capability as a library. As soon as subgoals as notebooks are reached a new one is started from the freed resources. Each new child is a fresh start and as such there is no limit except in the ability to cover all the ground that has been turned up. See the movie, Groundhog Day with its starting over each day, for the feel of this project. Although the family history in the Woods line goes back to William Woods, practically, this project started with Verle Woods. Ray Woods, his father, did not interact with his family much. Jay Orr Woods, his grandfather, thought in terms of passing on a skill, carpentry, with a great deal of success. We find no trace in the capabilities of the Woods family of William Holmes Woods with his newspaper publishing and doctoring nor of William Woods of farming. We all are well known to not have any farming skills. We have not even an idea of the skill of Frank Woods nor his wife nor children beyond William Woods. Verle is the first in the family who taught his sons and daughter in terms of making a better life based on the history of the family. He is also the first to emphasize an extensive knowledge of the world around us as a means to improve our lives. The three branches of knowledge give us "how" and "why" and speak to "where" and "when". Dale and I have been able to achieve an independent lifestyle and a great deal of resilience against adversity by advance planning and avoidance of life destroying habits. We are having trouble interesting the third generation excepting Juel in the life-long learning all this implies but we are winning on the goal of attracting the women into our lifestyle. Dale is isolated from his children. This belief is based on the first thing that God asked of us, to name things, and the second thing, to be fruitful and multiply. The growth of the internet has changed this work from library centric to net centric. 
 
Most of the research is being done in Omaha, Spokane, and Las Vegas. The records are stored in computers at 3918 N 23 ST, Omaha NE. 
 
The funding is principally by Jay Woods, Dale Woods and Juel McDonald. We expect that it will be done our way. This is going to be extremely difficult as it involves bucking the course of American society which promotes the nuclear family. Juel has been the most successful in bucking this trend. Jay Woods can be reached at 3918 N 23 ST, OMAHA NE 68110-1728, 402 408 6611.
